docs(topic operator): updates for the preview of the unidirectional topic operator (UTO) (#8756)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/operators/con-operator-topic-names.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-using-the-topic-operator.adoc

[id='con-operator-topic-names-{context}']
= Topic naming conventions

A `KafkaTopic` resource includes a name for the topic and a label that identifies the name of the Kafka cluster it belongs to. 

.Label identifying a Kafka cluster for topic handling
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaTopicApiVersion}
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: topic-name-1
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  topicName: topic-name-1  
----

> The cluster name is derived from the `Kafka` resource.

Reviewer: It is not derived from it -> it is the name of the Kafka resource.

> If the label does not match the Kafka cluster, the Topic Operator cannot identify the `KafkaTopic`, and the topic is not created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the label does not match the Kafka cluster, the Topic Operator will not see the `KafkaTopic`, and the topic is not created.
```

> If the label does not match the Kafka cluster, the Topic Operator cannot identify the `KafkaTopic`, and the topic is not created.

Reviewer: The cluster label is IMHO used when the TO is deployed using the KAfka resource. But Standalone TO might not use it. Might be worth mentioning?

Author: Right. I've added a note:

> NOTE: The label is only used when deploying the Topic Operator with the `Kafka` resource.
> When deploying the standalone Topic Operator, you specify a connection to a Kafka cluster instead.

Kafka and Kubernetes have their own naming validation rules, and a Kafka topic name might not be a valid resource name in Kubernetes.
If possible, try and stick to a naming convention that works for both.

Consider the following guidelines:

* Use topic names that reflect the nature of the topic
* Be concise and keep the name under 63 characters
* Use all lower case and hyphens
* Avoid special characters, spaces or symbols

In the `KafkaTopic` resource, the Kafka topic name is specified using `metadata.name`.
However, if the Kafka topic name is not a valid Kubernetes resource name, you can use the `spec.topicName` property as an alias that works in Kubernetes. 
When absent, this name defaults to the `metadata.name` of the topic.
Topic names cannot be changed later.

.Example of supplying a valid Kafka topic name
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaTopicApiVersion}
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: My.Topic.1 # <1>
spec:
  topicName: my-topic-1 # <2>
  # ...
----
<1> Kafka topic name uses upper case and periods, which are invalid in Kubernetes.

> <2> A topic name alias that works in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Isn't this the wrong way around? The `.metadata.name` has to be a valid Kubernetes name. `.spec.topicName` can contain the actualKafka name.

Author: Yes! I've updated and tried to make clearer.

> The `KafkaTopic` resource allows you to specify the Kafka topic name using the `metadata.name` field. 
> However, if the desired Kafka topic name is not a valid Kubernetes resource name, you can use the `spec.topicName` property to specify the actual name. 
> The `spec.topicName` field is optional, and when it's absent, the Kafka topic name defaults to the `metadata.name` of the topic.
> When a topic is created, the topic name cannot be changed later.
> 
> .Example of supplying a valid Kafka topic name
> [source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
> apiVersion: {KafkaTopicApiVersion}
> kind: KafkaTopic
> metadata:
>   name: my-topic-1 # <1>
> spec:
>   topicName: My.Topic.1 # <2>
> <1> A valid topic name that works in Kubernetes.
> <2> A Kafka topic name that uses upper case and periods, which are invalid in Kubernetes.

If more than one `KafkaTopic` resource refers to the same Kafka topic, the resource that was created first is considered to be the one managing the topic. 
The status of the newer resources is updated to indicate a conflict, and their status is changed to `False`.

If a Kafka client application, such as Kafka Streams, automatically creates topics with invalid Kubernetes resource names, the Topic Operator generates a valid `metadata.name`. 

> It replaces invalid characters and appends a hash to the name.

Reviewer: Only on BTO -> UTO will not create the KafkaTopic resource for it

Author: Updated:

> If a Kafka client application, such as Kafka Streams, automatically creates topics with invalid Kubernetes resource names, the Topic Operator generates a valid `metadata.name` when used in bidirectional mode. 
> It replaces invalid characters and appends a hash to the name. 
> However, this behavior does not apply in (preview) unidirectional mode.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-using-the-topic-operator.adoc

[id='con-operator-topic-names-{context}']
= Topic naming conventions

A `KafkaTopic` resource includes a name for the topic and a label that identifies the name of the Kafka cluster it belongs to. 

.Label identifying a Kafka cluster for topic handling
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaTopicApiVersion}
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: topic-name-1
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  topicName: topic-name-1  
----

The label provides the cluster name of the `Kafka` resource.
If the label does not match the Kafka cluster, the Topic Operator cannot see the `KafkaTopic`, and the topic is not created.

NOTE: The label is only used when deploying the Topic Operator with the `Kafka` resource.

> When deploying the standalone Topic Operator, you specify a connection to a Kafka cluster instead.

Reviewer 2: This is wrong. Labels are not a mechanism for determining where the operator connects. They are a mechanism for determining which `KafkaTopics` it tries to consume. So it's still possible to use labels with the standalone operator.

Author: changed as follows:

> The label provides the cluster name of the `Kafka` resource.
> The Topic Operator uses the label as a mechanism for determining which `KafkaTopic` resources to manage.
> If the label does not match the Kafka cluster, the Topic Operator cannot see the `KafkaTopic`, and the topic is not created.

Consider the following guidelines:

* Use topic names that reflect the nature of the topic
* Be concise and keep the name under 63 characters
* Use all lower case and hyphens
* Avoid special characters, spaces or symbols

The `KafkaTopic` resource allows you to specify the Kafka topic name using the `metadata.name` field. 
However, if the desired Kafka topic name is not a valid Kubernetes resource name, you can use the `spec.topicName` property to specify the actual name. 
The `spec.topicName` field is optional, and when it's absent, the Kafka topic name defaults to the `metadata.name` of the topic.
When a topic is created, the topic name cannot be changed later.

.Example of supplying a valid Kafka topic name
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaTopicApiVersion}
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic-1 # <1>
spec:
  topicName: My.Topic.1 # <2>
  # ...
----
<1> A valid topic name that works in Kubernetes.
<2> A Kafka topic name that uses upper case and periods, which are invalid in Kubernetes.

If more than one `KafkaTopic` resource refers to the same Kafka topic, the resource that was created first is considered to be the one managing the topic. 

> The status of the newer resources is updated to indicate a conflict, and their status is changed to `False`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The status of the newer resources is updated to indicate a conflict, and their `Ready` status is changed to `False`.
```
